VAULT-42500 update token policy inheritance docs (#2610)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/docs/commands/token/create.mdx

page_title: token create - Command
description: |-
  The "token create" command creates a new token that can be used for
  authentication. Vault creates this token as a child of the currently
  authenticated token. In the same namespace, the generated token inherits the

>   parent token's direct policies unless you explicitly assign policies.

Reviewer: "direct" is a little unclear

Author: Agree, I've got rid of "direct" entirely and applied edits.

>   parent token's policies and permissions unless you explicitly assign policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  authentication as a child of the currently authenticated token.
```
Style correction: SEO best practice suggest a description of 120 - 160 characters

# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-04-14T17:13:42-07:00

> last_modified: 2026-06-09T22:08:05.000Z

Reviewer: As in other places: we should leave this metadata alone

Author: Resolved.

# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# token create

The `token create` command creates a new token that can be used for
authentication. Vault creates this token as a child of the currently
authenticated token. When Vault creates the child token in the same namespace as
the currently authenticated token, the child token inherits the parent token's

> direct policies unless you explicitly assign policies with `-policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the currently authenticated token, the child token inherits all of the parent token's
policies and permissions unless you explicitly assign policies with `-policy`.
```

Author: Applied on newest commit.

> token's policies and permissions unless you explicitly assign policies with `-policy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authentication. Vault creates the new token as a child of the currently
authenticated token. When Vault creates the child token in the same namespace as
the currently authenticated token, the child token inherits all policies and
permissions associated with the parent token unless you explicitly assign
different policies with `-policy`.
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun, avoid possessives

In Vault Enterprise, when Vault creates the child token in a different namespace,

> the child token does not automatically inherit direct policies from the parent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the child token does not automatically inherit all policies and permissions from the parent
```

Author: Applied on newest commit.

the parent token's namespace. Vault assigns explicitly requested policies for the

> target namespace, plus `default` when applicable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create a child token in a different namespace, Vault does not
automatically assign all policies and permissions from the parent token. Instead,
Vault assigns explicitly requested policies for the target namespace and
`default` when applicable.
```
